2865	Spock - Unit Test and Prosper	Spock is a groovy based testing framework that leverages all the "best practices" of the last several years taking advantage of many of the development experience of the industry.   So combine Junit,  BDD, RSpec, Groovy and Vulcans... and you get Spock! This is a significant advancement in the world of testing.	 Ken Sipe
2875	Options for Concurrency in Groovy	Multi-core processors have increased the demand to get concurrency right.  Thankfully, the options for programming concurrency on the JVM has evolved from the JDK synchronize and suffer model to Software Transactional Memory and actor based concurrency.	 Venkat Subramaniam
2900	Integrating Groovy and JVM Languages	Java - Groovy integration just works, for most part. Calling into Java code from Groovy is pretty straight forward. Calling into Groovy from Java is easier than you may think (and that's the hard part!). There are a few rough edges you will run into when you try to call from Groovy into other languages.	 Venkat Subramaniam
2901	Design Patterns in Groovy	When I got into Java I had a "Wow, look how easy it is to implement these patterns."  When I got into Groovy, I had the same reaction, but only better. The dynamic nature of Groovy makes it easier to implement some common patterns. What's better, there are some patterns that you can  exploit in Groovy that are not so easy in Java. In this section, you will learn how to implement some traditional patters in Groovy, and also other patterns you are simply not used to in Java.	 Venkat Subramaniam
2905	Solving tic-tac-toe: an addendum to the static vs dynamic typing/OO vs functional debates	TBA	Paul King
2941	Geb - Very Groovy Browser Automation	Geb is a browser automation solution for Groovy. It brings together the power of WebDriver, the elegance of jQuery content selection, the robustness of Page Object modelling and the expressiveness of the Groovy language. Geb enables more expressive, more concise, and (very importantly) more maintainable web tests.	Luke Daley
2942	Productive Grails Functional Testing	We all know we should be writing functional (i.e. web) tests for our Grails applications, but this can sometimes seem like too much work for not enough gain. In this talk we'll look at the current Grails plugins that are out there that can start to decrease the development and maintenance cost and make getting the coverage you need more achievable.	Luke Daley
2943	Next Level Spock	So you already know and love Spock, the Enterprise ready testing framework, but want to know how to make the most of it and take your testing to the next level? Then this talk is for you. Even if you're new to Spock, but are interested in making your testing more effective this talk is for you.	Luke Daley
3061	Getting Started with Spring Security 3.1	Spring Security is a framework that focuses on providing both authentication and authorization to Java applications. Like all Spring projects, the real power of Spring Security is found in how easily it can be extended to meet custom requirements. In this presentation Rob will incrementally apply Spring Security to an existing application to demonstrate how it can meet your authentication and authorization needs. It will also answer many of the common "how to" questions that are found on the forums. This will ensure that you can not only secure your application quickly, but ensure you understand Spring Security well enough to extend it to meet your custom requirements.	 Rob Winch
3097	Understanding Java Garbage Collection and what you can do about it	Garbage Collection is an integral part of application behavior on Java platforms, yet it is often misunderstood. As such, it is important for Java developers to understand the actions you can take in selecting and tuning collector mechanisms, as well as in your application architecture choices.  In this session, Gil Tene (CTO, Azul Systems) will review and classify the various garbage collectors and collection techniques available in JVMs today. Following a quick overview of common garbage collection techniques including generational, parallel, stop-the-world, incremental, concurrent and mostly-concurrent algorithms, we will define terms and metrics common to all collectors. We will classify each major JVM collector's mechanisms and characteristics and discuss the tradeoffs involved in balancing requirements for responsiveness, throughput, space, and available memory across varying scale levels. We will conclude with some pitfalls, common misconceptions, and "myths" around garbage collection behavior, as well as examples of how some good choices can result in impressive application behavior.	Gil Tene
3113	Groovy Power Tools	Groovy has been around for some time and is generally recognized as a highly productive object-oriented language with a tight association with Java.  Groovy seems to be going through a second wave of popularity with a more diverse repertoire of benefits, including building, deploying and testing, in addition to rapid web development.   The fastest growth of productivity tools are all powered by Groovy. Discover the Groovy Truth!	Ken Sipe
3229	Applying Groovy Closures for fun and productivity	You can program higher order functions in Groovy quite easily using closures. But the benefits of closures go far beyond that. Groovy has a variety of capabilities hidden in closures.	 Venkat Subramaniam
3230	Improving your Groovy code quality	Groovy is concise and expressive. However, writing good quality code takes effort and discipline.	 Venkat Subramaniam
3272	Grails in the Enterprise: Can I? Should we?	Java/J2EE looking for something better but not sure if you can sell paying the price of a new language/framework? Not sure if Grails will work in YOUR environment?	 Todd Ellermann
3287	Grokking GORM (and Hibernate)	The Grails Object Relational Mapping (GORM) API is an elegant domain specific language on top of Hibernate. To really understand how it works, you need to understand how Hibernate sees the world. This workshop will explore the behavior of GORM, from following object state transitions to managing the session to fetching lazy associations and more.	Kenneth Kousen
3326	Patterns for Efficient Build Promotion	We have seen quite a few larger projects for which a naive practice of early integration between the components lead to constant breakages. Thus they were not capable to successfully build a new version of the software stack for days or even weeks. Obviously the problem of that is dramatic as no regular manual testing and capacity testing is taking place. Not only is this a massive waste of testing resources, it also leads to very long and therefore expensive feedback cycles that severely affect your time-to-market of new features. It also a likely source of conflict between the CI team and software development, as with no other means at hand, there is a desire to create stability by not adding new features or doing important refactoring.	Hans Dockter
3330	Writing your own Groovy 2.0 module	Learn about the modularization features in Groovy 2.0 including everything you need to know to write and use your own modules.	Paul King
3334	Testing Grails	Grails comes with extensive testing support, ranging from unit to integration to functional tests. This session will demonstrate the range of options available both natively and through testing plugins.	Kenneth Kousen
3335	Helping Spring with Groovy	The Spring framework has always had a friendly relationship with dynamic languages. In this presentation, we'll look at all the ways you can add Groovy to Spring to make development easier, ranging from simplifying your configuration files to deploying refreshable beans to using Spock tests in the Spring test context and more.	Kenneth Kousen
3336	Making Java Groovy	Groovy isn't designed to replace Java -- it just makes Java cleaner and easier to develop. This presentation will look at various tasks Java developers need to do and demonstrate ways Groovy can help.	Kenneth Kousen
3337	Design Patterns in Groovy	Languages that support both dynamic typing and closures radically simplify the standard design patterns. This presentation will demonstrate how many of the common patterns in Java simply vanish in Groovy, and how much simpler they are even when they remain.	Kenneth Kousen
3384	Making Connections with Spring Social	The modern web is rich with APIs that can be consumed by other applications, enabling an integrated experience for the users who hold accounts on the websites that front those APIs. Many of these APIs are secured with OAuth, an authorization specification for securing REST APIs. Spring Social is an extension to the Spring Framework that enables Spring applications to establish connections with those APIs on behalf of their users with little or no need to muck about in the intricacies of OAuth.	 Craig Walls
3385	Client-Side UI Smackdown	In the modern web, user interfaces are expected to be rich, highly responsive, and available anytime, anywhere, and on any device. Round-trip server-side HTML rendering doesn't fit the bill any longer and numerous JavaScript frameworks have stepped forward to simplify development of client-side user-interfaces. With so many great options available, we now face a paradox of choice and it can be difficult to decide which UI framework best suits our needs.	Craig Walls
3391	Architecture of a modern web app	No longer are servers the exclusive holder of smarts, and clients dumb terminals. Modern application leverage the strengths of both the client and server to accomplish their tasks. No longer can a client side developer ignore the server, nor a server side developer ignore the client.	Scott Andrews
3392	Tooling for the JavaScript Era	More and more applications are being built with JavaScript, and not only for the client side but also utilising JavaScript server side. As the complexity of JavaScript applications increases there is a need for the tools to improve – textmate isn’t necessarily the answer! The user shouldn’t need to lower their expectations when stepping out of amazing Java tools and tackling JavaScript development.					 In this session we will present our vision for tooling for the JavaScript era and demo some early versions and prototypes of what we think the next generation JavaScript tools could look like.	 Andy Clement and Martin Lippert
3393	How to build Big Data Pipelines for Hadoop using OSS	Hadoop is not an island. To deliver a complete Big Data solution, a data pipeline needs to be developed that incorporates and orchestrates many diverse technologies. A Hadoop focused data pipeline not only needs to coordinate the running of multiple Hadoop jobs (MapReduce, Hive, Pig or Cascading), but also encompass real-time data acquisition and the analysis of reduced data sets extracted into relational/NoSQL databases or dedicated analytical engines.												 Costin Leau
3394	Spring Data Repositories – A Deep Dive	The repository abstraction layer is one of the core pieces of the Spring Data projects. It provides a consistent, interface-based programming model to allow implementing data access layers easily. The talk will start with a brief introduction and dive into best practices and implementation patterns later one.	 Oliver Gierke
3395	Spring Integration, Batch, and Data: Future Directions	The Integration, Batch, and Data projects are frequently used in combination together. In this talk we will cover the common combinations and provide guidance as to which project is more appropriate for a given use-case.	 Mark Fisher and Mark Pollack
3397	What’s new in Spring Framework 3.2	In its 3.2 generation, the Spring Framework focuses on core features for asynchronous processing and message-oriented architectures, as well as enhancements to its caching support and its multi-language support.	 Juergen Hoeller
3398	The Spring Data MongoDB Project	This talk will introduce the Spring Data MongoDB project. Spring Data MongoDB provides a feature rich library for writing MongoDB applications in Java. It builds upon the Spring Framework and as such promotes a POJO programming model with a strong emphasis on productivity.	 Chris Harris
3399	What's New in Spring MVC 3.2	Following on Juergen's talk on the upcoming Spring 3.2 release, this presentation will focus on what's new specifically in the area of Spring MVC. The presentation will explain all noteworthy features and, as is usual with every new release, there will be a lot to discuss including Servlet-based async request support, content negotiation enhancements, REST error handling, @MVC test support, and much more.	 Rossen Stoyanchev
3400	Going Async - Push Notifications	Web and mobile clients are getting continually more sophisticated as client processing power continues to increase and much richer APIs are provided by the given platform. One of the most mind-bending shifts that is occurring is in transitioning from a world of purely request-response, to the world of client-server full duplex communication that is enabled by the latest smart client platforms.	 Jeremy Grelle
3401	Grails and the World of Tomorrow	It's an interesting time in the world of application development. We're in the middle of a perfect storm in which cloud deployments, alternative data stores, and rich, multi-device client UIs are emerging as the future standards. What does this mean for Grails developers and what does the framework offer in this very different world?	 Peter Ledbrook
3402	Groovy & Grails for Spring/Java developers	Java is a good all-purpose programming language, but does that mean it's the best tool for all jobs? In this talk, you'll see how Groovy can scratch itches you didn't even know you had. From scripts, to writing unit tests, to building projects, we'll take you through use cases that highlight the advantages of having a second language in your toolbox.	 Peter Ledbrook
3403	Thorough Introduction To Grails 2	Grails represents technology that offers great flexibility and power without the complexity introduced by other Java web application frameworks.  Custom tag libraries are a snap.  GSP Templates provide a simple mechanism for reusing UI elements.  Sitemesh is integrated to help provide a consistent presentation across the entire application. GORM is super powerful ORM.  Grails provides simple mechanisms for leveraging the power of Ajax.	 Jeff Brown
3404	What Is New In Grails 2?	In this session, Grails core developer Jeff Brown will deliver an update on the latest and greats features of the Grails framework - a dynamic, web application framework based on the Groovy language and designed for Spring.	 Jeff Brown
3405	Advanced Metaprogramming With Groovy	The dynamic nature of Groovy makes it a fantastic language for building dynamic applications for the Java Platform.  The metaprogramming capabilities offered by the language provide everything that an application development team needs to build systems that are far more capable than their all Java counterparts.  Taking advantage of Groovy's metaprogramming capabilities brings great new possibilities that would be very difficult or just plain impossible to write with Java alone.  Building Domain Specific Languages in Groovy is easy to do once a team has a good understanding of the Metaobject-Protocol (MOP) and the method dispatch mechanisms used by the Groovy runtime environment.	 Jeff Brown
3406	Gradle: Next Generation Dependency Management	The Java ecosystem has a strong tradition of dependency management. This can range from structuring the use of the jars in the source to automatically fetching dependencies on demand from a remote repository. This practice has enabled new levels of automation and understanding of just what the dependencies are for a given component. However, the limitations of today's most popular tools, platforms and models are proving to be inadequate in dealing with the complex modern world of continuously delivered, polyglot, software.	 Luke Daley
3408	Grails & Async	We will cover techniques for providing resources not contstrained to typical request/response boundaries.	  Colin Harrington
3409	Resources Plugin Deep Dive	Since Grails 2.0 the Resources Plugin has been included by default on new apps.  The Resources Plugin provides a powerful streamlined asset pipeline that you can configure and extend.  These technologies are essential for providing a performant web experience and is also under appreciated in the community.	  Colin Harrington
3410	Warp 10: High performance Grails	Using any framework wrong will result in poor results, including performance. Grails can deliver excellent performance to those that ask nicely, but there are many pitfalls and landmines scattered. In this session you will learn how to architect a new application to start on the right foot when it comes to performance, avoiding costly future refactoring. For existing applications, there will be well defined processes to find out the pieces that are slowing your Grails application.	 Emiliano Conde
3411	Just do it: Migrating to Grails	Are you in the process of evaluating adopting Grails? Are you 'too comfortable' with you current Jsf/struts application but you don't want to be left behind? In this session, you will learn how to migrate a pure Java application to Grails with and emphasis of getting the least code redone while aiming to maximize those areas where Grails delivers a big productivity boost.	 Emiliano Conde
3412	What's new in Groovy 2.0?	Groovy is a very popular alternative language for the JVM that continues to bring more developer productivity and more performance after each release. In this session, after a quick overview of the key features of Groovy 1.8, we'll dive through the new developments in the recently released Groovy 2.0.	 Guillaume LaForge
3413	Functional Groovy	Groovy doesn't claim to be a fully-fledged functional programming language but it does provide the Java or Groovy developer with a whole toolbox of features for doing functional style programs. This talk looks at the key Groovy features which support a functional style. Topics covered include using closures, currying and partial evaluation, closure composition, useful functional-centric AST macros, useful functional-centric runtime meta-programming tricks, trampolining, using Java functional libraries, immutable data structures, lazy and infinite lists, using Groovy 2's static typing and approaches for moving beyond Java's type system.	 Paul King
3414	Creating Groovy DSLs that Developers can Actually Use	In this presentation, Guillaume, Paul, and Andrew will show you how to leverage Groovy to build a Domain-Specific Language (DSL) used to control a rover on Mars! Various  metaprogramming techniques and integration mechanisms will be demonstrated.  But the language itself is only the first part of the story.  Developers cannot be expected to properly use a DSL without first-class IDE support and documentation.	 Guillaume LaForge, Paul King, and Andrew Eisenberg
3415	Under the Hood: Using Native Hibernate in Grails	GORM is very powerful and makes it simple to work with databases but there are features and configuration options that aren't available or are inconvenient to work with.	 Burt Beckwith
3416	The Grails Cache Plugins	The new Grails cache plugins build on the Spring 3.1 Caching API to provide easy and transparent caching to Grails applications. Using annotations and GSP tags you can quickly configure service method, controller action, and page fragment caching to help your application scale by avoiding regenerating expensive responses and method calls.	 Burt Beckwith
3417	Hacking the Grails Spring Security Plugin	Spring Security and the Grails Spring Security Core plugin have many extension points, but it's often not clear where to look when you want to change how things work for your application. In this talk we'll look at customizing behavior, from overriding configuration parameters to creating custom subclasses.	 Burt Beckwith
3418	Under the Hood: Using Spring in Grails	The Spring framework makes up the core of Grails, providing bean management, dependency injection and transaction support. Grails controllers and the web tier use and extend Spring MVC.	Burt Beckwith
3420	Griffon Jumpstart	Have to renew or spice up a desktop application at work? In need of a rich desktop experience but don't now where to start?  If any of these sound familiar to you or you're just curious to know more about Griffon then you've come to the right place.	 Andres Almiray
3421	Groovy AST Demystified	Compilers are powerful tools, they pretty much translate your thoughts into machine code. Extensible compilers are even more powerful. It turns out that the Groovy compiler can be extended by means of AST transformations.	 Andres Almiray
3422	GETn2it -- Case study of building a startup's business using Grails and Spring	GETn2it is social marketing platform designed to sell the maximum number of live music event tickets, as well as high-margin on-night food, libation and merchandise in venue and the surrounding concert neighborhood. There were a number of technical challenges that needed to be met by the platform, and using Grails and the Spring framework to build the platform met those challenges.  Key factors like rapid prototyping, agile requirements to meet changing stakeholder needs, and aggregating and processing massive amounts of 3rd party data were all quickly met with Grails and Spring.	 Brian Jimerson
3423	Modern Application Architectures with Grails and Spring	Today's modern applications have much different requirements than traditional enterprise applications from a decade ago.  Today's applications require things like multiple client channels, integration with big, unstructured data, rapid time to market, and unparalleled scalability.  And most traditional enterprise development frameworks aren't well suited to meet these needs.	 Brian Jimerson
3424	Groovy as a weapon of massive PAASification	Amadeus is a leading actor in the Travel Industry. Our e-Commerce division, responsible for providing cross-channels (B2B, B2C, Travel or Airline agents) front-ends, has been developing community applications, self-hosted in a SaaS model, for now more than 10 years; they are multi-tenant, as to share the same infrastructure for all our customers. We therefore built a highly sophisticated model of physical and logical farms, partitioning the traffic and optimizing resources. We operate 700+ JEE nodes, split in 30+ logical clusters, deployed on less than 10 physical server pools. Today, this infrastructure is delivering a billion dynamic pages per month, for more than 5 million bookings, with a 10 times factor growth expected in the coming years. Even though thousands of parameters are available to tailor our products to any one particular needs, the recent evolution of the IT Industry towards PAAS ecosystems modified customer expectations: they are now looking for the capability to extend our applications, interact with their own IT, influence our business logic or even graphical interface. To support this vision, we started developing an extensibility framework, based on scripting technologies. Though being language agnostic, we quickly decided to invest on the Groovy language and rely on JSR 223 to embed it into our applications. However, transforming a multi-tenant & community SAAS ecosystem into a flexible PAAS environment implies to take up multiple challenges, especially around sandboxing – access & resource control – or productivity and production constraints, such as hot-reloading or instantaneous fallback mechanism.	 Nenad Bogojevic
3425	Web Clustering Integration with Terracotta, Quartz, & Grails	Terracotta has a free open source edition which provides excellent functionality for clustering in Grails and Java, and I will show use to set up Terracotta and cluster your application using its  main features Ehcache, HTTP Session in Tomcat, and Quartz.	Ryan Vanderwerf
3426	Streaming Video In Grails	This talk will demonstrate and show how the grails video plugin works by allowing pseudo-streaming to the browser and using ffmpeg to transcode all videos into a common format on the server. Clients ask many times for functionality like this for their sites, and you will learn a easy and simple and free way to fulfill the need.	  Ryan Vanderwerf
3427	Developing Mobile HTML5 Apps with Grails	Developing applications for mobile devices using web technologies is now well within reach. When the capabilities of HTML5 are combined with CSS3 and JavaScript, web application developers have an opportunity to develop compelling mobile applications using familiar tools. While the HTML5 specification is still evolving, there is a lot that can be used right now to build mobile web apps. Mobile web apps are now starting to provide many of the features that were once only available to native-language-based apps in Java, Objective-C, etc.	 Sebastian Blanc
3428	Grails goes Graph	Thanks to the GORM abstraction layer introduced in Grails 2.0, adding new persistence engines is much easier compared to Grails 1.x times. During the last months the Grails Neo4j plugin was established and is now in a phase of stabilization.  Despite that it's already used in production.	 Stefan Armbruster
3429	Groovy 2: type checking to the rescue!	Choosing a language is often a matter of taste. While a lot of people using Groovy come from a Java background, not every Java developer is willing to use Groovy because of its dynamic nature. Often, those people are disturbed by the lack of error reporting at compile time for code that would be obviously wrong in a static world. Unfortunately, by nature, Groovy cannot catch such errors because program semantics are ensured at runtime. Well, this was before Groovy 2. In the latest version of the language, we introduced two annotations, @TypeChecked and @CompileStatic, which are precisely aimed at helping Java developers to seal the semantics of the language at compile time.	 Cedric Champeau
3434	Grails Update	In this session, Grails project lead Graeme Rocher will deliver an update on the latest and greatest features of the Grails framework, including all the new features introduced in the 2.x line.	 Graeme Rocher
3435	GORM Internals	Want to understand the magic of GORM? Then this session is for you.	 Graeme Rocher
3436	Batch Processing and Integration on Cloud Foundry	Spring Integration is a lightweight integration framework from the makers of Spring. Integration of data and services between applications is not easy – and often requires adaptation from one system to another. Spring Integration also promotes loosely coupled, event-driven applications. Spring Batch is a batch processing framework – providing a simple, idiomatic way to crunch large amounts of data across in a sustainable way. Spring Batch even allows you to distribute processing across multiple machines in a cluster. Naturally, both of these frameworks play very nicely on top of Cloud Foundry, which lets you scale up and out as demand requires.	 Josh Long
3437	Getting started with Spring Data and Distributed Database Grids	Alternative data persistence approaches are all the rage these days. Transitioning our skill sets and legacy applications to these new and promising technologies though can be problematic. Spring Data is an exciting solution to persistence proliferation. It brings the flexibility and familiarity of the Spring Framework and adds the concepts of Repositories which allow developers to write their programs to using familiar methods such as save, update, delete, and dynamic finders.	 David Turanski and Mark Johnson
3438	When and why would I use OAuth2?	One of the questions we get asked the most by developers and architects is: when and why would I use OAuth2? The answer, as often with such questions, is “it depends”, but there are some features of OAuth2 that make it compelling in some situations, especially in systems composed of many lightweight web services, which becoming a very common architectural pattern.	 Dave Syer
3439	Ten Great Reasons to Virtualize Your Java Apps	Customer interest in virtualizing Java workloads has been growing exponentially year on year. For the last few years, the focus has been largely around looking for best practice guidance to mitigate concerns around virtualizing Java workloads, particularly in the area of performance. Since joining VMware, SpringSource has been investing in providing first class support for the Java runtime on vSphere with products such as EM4J. Combined with the industry-leading capabilities of the vSphere platform and the growing product portfolio around the Java ecosystem, there are many great reasons to virtualize Java.	 Benjamin Corrie
3440	Introduction to WebSockets	The WebSockets technology promises to fill a niche in web applications by enabling browsers and servers to exchange messages with high frequency, low latency and low bandwith requirements in full duplex mode. The WebSocket protocol is an IETF standard, the WebSocket API is almost standardized by the W3C, and the JSR-356 will deliver a Java API in Java EE 7. There are already implementations in node.js and in a number of Servlet containers and Java frameworks. The time is as good as ever to start digging into it and there is so much to consider — from getting familiar with the protocol and the API, to sorting through the choices on the browser and on the server side, practical challenges with browser support and network issues, and so on. Furthermore, WebSockets offer a messaging-style architecture that's in sharp contrast to the RESTful architectures that connect the web today, so learning where to draw the line will be essential.	 Chris Beams, Gunnar Hillert, and Rossen Stoyanchev
3441	Designing a REST-ful API using Spring 3	In the course of creating VAS, we did a lot of work to design a useful REST API. REST is generally a very loose collection of principals that can be interpreted in many ways, so this talk would describe a more concrete idea of what a REST-ful API should look like.	 Ben Hale
3442	Introduction to Cascading	Introduction to Cascading, an application framework for Java developers to deploy robust, enterprise-grade applications on Apache Hadoop. We'll start with the simplest Cascading program possible (file copy in a distributed file system) and progress in small steps to show a Java-based social recommender system based on Twitter feeds.	 Paco Nathan
3443	Java EE Services for Spring Applications	The continuous evolution of both the Spring Framework and the Java EE platform presents us with new challenges and opportunities for collaboration. Several recent EE services are very commonly used with Spring, e.g. Servlet 3.0, JPA 2.0 and Bean Validation. This session presents an up-to-date analysis:  How do recent Spring versions (3.1/3.2) integrate with Java EE 6? How is this going to be affected by Java EE 7 in a year's time?	  Juergen Hoeller and Marius Bogoevici
3444	A Tour of Modern Templating Frameworks with Spring MVC	Tired of the limitations of writing your presentation layer in older technologies? Eager to discover what other alternatives there are for rendering your UI? In this presentation we will take a tour of some of the modern templating frameworks and demonstrate how to integrate them with a Spring MVC sample application.	 Rob Winch
3445	Building for Performance with Spring Integration & Spring Batch	Spring Integration & Spring Batch greatly simplify the process of developing enterprise integration architectures and messaging systems. This session covers architectural patterns and real world examples showing how comprehensive the capabilities of Spring Integration & Batch are, while being lightweight enough to be suitable for very high performance environments.	Andrew Elmore
3446	Effective design patterns with NewSQL	In this session, we will explore some basic concepts in NewSQL (VMWare SQLFire), translate a traditional “Star” schema to a partitioned schema(scale out design), walk through various SQL usage patterns – simple queries, complex joins, aggregations, stored procedures and explain how they can be more effectively realized in SQLFire through replicated tables, partitioned tables, in-memory or disk resident tables, parallel procedure execution, distributed transactions, etc.	 Guillermo Tantachuco and Jags Ramnarayan
3447	Spring Insight	Spring Insight is a technology that gives visibility into an application's runtime performance and behavior. Originally intended to be used by developers and designed to be integrated with the VMware vFabric tc Server, it has long developed beyond that point. Presently, it is already used for real-live applications monitoring and is integrated with most of the current application servers in the market – such as Tomcat, JBoss and WebLogic – via a command line Java installer. As part of the development process, a lot of experience has been gained by the Spring Insight development team regarding the process of integrating an application server with the instrumentation and monitoring framework.	 Lyor Goldstein and Talya Gendler
3448	Spring for Dummies: Enabling Business Developers	As users become more tech-savvy their ability and desire to build their own applications grows. Gartner predicts that by 2014, business developers will build at least 25% of new business applications. Commonly these applications must access and update corporate data sources. Increasingly business developers want to deliver mobile solutions. Gone are the days of under the desk Access applications. IT needs to enable, manage, and control these applications to ensure standards for security, reliability, and maintainability. This session will describe the kinds of people who should build applications and the types of applications they can build. We'll demonstrate using real world examples, integrating services from vCenter Orchestrator into a business developer application developed using WaveMaker.	Derek Henninger and Edward Callahan

3449	Testing Web Applications with Spring 3.2	This year Sam Brannen and Rossen Stoyanchev are excited to present new developments in Spring 3.2 which include comprehensive support for testing web applications and context hierarchies with the Spring TestContext Framework as well as comprehensive support for out-of-container Spring MVC tests.	Rossen Stoyanchev and Sam Brannen
3453	Decomposing Applications for Deployability and Scalability	Today, there are several trends that are forcing application architectures to evolve. Users expect a rich, interactive and dynamic user experience on a wide variety of clients including mobile devices. Applications must be highly scalable, highly available and run on cloud environments. Organizations often want to frequently roll out updates, even multiple times a day. Consequently, it’s no longer adequate to develop simple, monolithic web applications that serve up HTML to desktop browsers.	Chris Richardson
3454	Managing and Monitoring Spring Integration Applications	In this presentation we will discuss the options for managing and monitoring applications that use Spring Integration. It will provide a comprehensive overview of the extensive support for JMX provided by Spring Integration, both in terms of providing access to Spring Integration internals, as well as creating a JMX client to interact with local and remote MBeanServers. In addition, we will show how to use the Spring Integration plugin for Spring Insight to drill down into Spring Integration flow processing to examine application performance.	Gary Russell
3456	IOC + Javascript	Thicker web clients and server-side JavaScript create complexity that must be managed through architectural patterns. JavaScript hasn't yet embraced lessons learned from other platforms, like Java+Spring. Existing JavaScript MVC frameworks are too rigid and lack sufficient architectural plumbing. Javascript needs flexible architectural infrastructure for building bigger, better apps.	 Brian Cavalier and John Hann
3457	Addressing Messaging Challenges Using Spring and RabbitMQ Technologies	For Modern Applications Many businesses are faced with some new messaging challenges for modern applications, such as horizontal scalability of the messaging tier, heterogeneous messaging systems and access methods, and extreme transaction processing. This presentation/demo will cover how businesses can overcome these messaging challenges with the use of Spring and RabbitMQ technologies.	Jonathan Fullam and Tom McCuch
3458	Java Batch JSR-352	Java Batch JSR-352 is an initiative chaired by Chris Vignola from IBM and includes members from RedHat, Oracle, VMware, Industry leaders, and independent consultants involved in the Enterprise Java Batch.	 Jonathan Fullam and Wayne Lund
3459	Spring Data REST: Easily export JPA entities directly to the web	The Spring Data REST project is a library for exposing Spring Data Repositories via the web. Version 1.0 supports JPA Repositories and upcoming versions will support other Spring Data Repository implementations like MongoDB and GemFire. This talk will walk you through the process of exposing JPA entities via the Spring Data Repository abstraction and then exporting them to HTTP using Spring Data REST.	 Jon Brisbin and Oleg Zhurakousky
3460	Implementing Domain-Driven Design with Spring and vFabric	Sponsored by EMC Consulting, this presentation highlights the use of Domain-Driven Design in a cloud-based, distributed architecture. There are several working examples of highly scalable DDD models featuring the NYSE Nanotrader system.	Vaughn Vernon and Wesley Williams
3461	Akka eye for the Spring guy	Where did my controllers, services and repositories go?--Learn about Akka and Scala from a seasoned Spring developer's point of view. Discover how to design and implement Akka applications using typical Spring terminology.	Jan Machacek
3462	Building an Integration Platform with Grails and Gradle	Due to increasing demand for a common interface as well as extensibility for our core software at Adaptive Computing, we have developed a single point of integration using Grails and Gradle in the form of a RESTful web application called Moab Web Services (MWS). As a part of these efforts, we developed a plugin platform that allows us to dynamically modify the behavior of MWS, even after being deployed on a client system and without restarting the application. We tackled numerous obstacles and questions during the development of the platform including JVM classloading, plugin services, plugin conventions, inter-plugin communication, plugin development, configuration and metadata, testing using the Spock framework, exposing plugin web services, and management via a web interface and RESTful API.	 Brian Saville
3463	Gradle - the Innovation continues	The Gradle development team have not been taking it easy since the release of Gradle 1.0. New features and innovations are constantly being added, rough edges are being smoothed and the platform continues to expand. In this session we’ll explore the most notable additions to Gradle since the release of 1.0 and preview some of the new and exciting features just over the horizon with Gradle founder and Gradleware CEO Hans Dockter and Gradle core developer Luke Daley.	Hans Dockter
3464	Standardizing your Enterprise Build Environment with Gradle	The larger and more diverse your technology organization, the greater the value you can realize in standardizing your build and delivery process. Internal build standards make it easier for people to switch between teams, allowing you to more readily adjust your staffing to meet changing business needs. In this session we’ll walk through examples of leveraging Gradle’s extensibility and plugin mechanisms to develop standards, enforce compliance and deliver tailored out of the box functionality. We will also discuss how to provision such customisations throughout your enterprise in a controllable way.	Luke Daley
3465	Modularizing your Grails application using private plugins	This talk will cover the most underrated feature of Grails -- the plugin system. Grails plugins are usually thought of as a way to add useful features to a new Grails app, but the plugin system also provides a powerful mechanism for reuse by breaking up a large application into reusable vertical slices. I will start with an overview of how the Grails plugin system works and expand on this to show how to create private plugins to break apart a monolithic Grails application into reusable application components. I'll show how to implement default functionality in these plugins that can be overridden in different applications.	 Kenneth Liu
3466	Using JPA effectively with Spring	In this talk we will show you how to use JPA effectively in your Spring Application making sure it is easy to maintain while being very fast.	 Mark Spritzler
3469	Spring Integration in the Wild	Few companies have been quite at the forefront of implementing Spring Integration (Batch & Data etc.) as Incept5, this year's VMWare EMEA cloud partner. John will cover a few of the more interesting implementations from an architectural point of view, looking at the choices, the reasoning, design and some of the issues behind the implementations. From projects with no SI skills ramping up to teams of several dozen programmers to experienced teams just looking for training, best practices and better data services integration.	 John Davies
3470	Using Spring in Scala	In this session, we will discuss the Scala programming language, and what it has to offer to Spring developers. We will show how to use the framework you know and love in Scala, and also share some tricks to make this even easier.	 Arjen Poutsma
3471	Springing forward with Roo add-ons	Learn how to write Spring Roo commands and features using the OSGi-based add-on API.  You'll learn how to extend the Roo shell to provide commands specific to your development shop, how to configure various architectures and frameworks using various Roo objects such as the FileManager and the ProjectManager, and how to write and update class and ITD definitions. A must if you need a tool to help you configure applications quickly or contribute to open-source recipes in Spring. After this talk, you will leave with a better understanding about how to customize Roo to improve developer productivity for your organization.	Ken Rimple
3474	Introduction to Spring Integration and Spring Batch	In this session you will learn what Spring Integration and Spring Batch are all about, how they differ, their commonalities, and how you can use Spring Batch and Spring Integration together. We will provide a short overview of the Enterprise Integration Patterns (EIP) as described in the highly influential book of the same name. Based on these patterns, we will then see how Spring Integration enables the development of Message-driven applications. This allows you to not only modularize new or existing applications but also makes it easy to integrate with external systems. This session will also introduce Spring Batch. Spring Batch addresses the needs of any batch process, be it complex calculations in large financial institutions or simple data migration tasks as they exist in many software development projects. We will cover what Spring Batch is, how Spring approaches the concepts of batch and how Spring handles scaling batch processes to be able to handle any volume of data. You will also see how Spring Integration and Spring Batch maximize the reuse of the integration support provided by the core Spring Framework. In addition to providing a robust, proven foundation, this also flattens the learning curve considerably to all developers already familiar with Spring.	Gary Russell and Gunnar Hillert
3475	Hands-on Guide to Spring Data Neo4j	Spring Data Neo4j provides straightforward object persistence into the Neo4j graph database. Conceived by Rod Johnson and Neo Technology CEO Emil Eifrem, it is the founding project of the Spring Data effort. The library leverages a tight integration with the Spring Framework and the Spring Data infrastructure. Besides the easy to use object graph mapping it offers the powerful graph manipulation and query capabilities of Neo4j with a convenient API. The talk introduces the different aspects of Spring Data Neo4j and shows applications in several example domains. During the session we walk through the creation of a engaging sample application that starts with the setup and annotating the domain objects. We see the usage of Neo4jTemplate and the powerful repository abstraction. After deploying the application to a cloud PaaS we execute some interesting query use-cases on the collected data.	 Michael Hunger
3476	From Spring + Java to Spring + Akka - A Journey of Discovery	Actor based concurrency model is a paradigm shift. What is paradigm shift? A change in the basic assumptions, or paradigms, within the ruling theory of science. A paradigm shift makes simple ideas hard to grok. Even though Actor model is a simple and revolutionary idea it becomes hard for programmers to see practical benefits and usage. Similarly, the Scala programming language brings a lot to the table in simplifying actor-based design, but comes with a new style of coding.  One possible solution to this problem is to evaluate the new paradigm in terms of old paradigm. In this presentation we will take a working Spring based web application and gradually implement it using actors and Scala. We will be skeptical and suspicious of new ideas but at the same time we will be open minded. We will learn about actor based concurrency model using the knowledge of spring.  At the same time, we'll learn best practices behind Actors, Scala and combining these with the Spring Framework.	Josh Suereth and Nilanjan Raychaudhuri
3477	An introduction to Spring.NET for Java developers	In this session you will learn the basics of getting started using Spring on .NET. All your friendly features will be there to great you: dependency injection, AOP, declarative transaction management, web framework, ORM, and messaging middleware integration, but with a .NET twist. Come and see how you can use your existing Spring Java skills to develop easily testable POCO based .NET applications	Dave Tillman and Stephen Bohlen
3478	Building an Enterprise CRM with Grails and Spring Integration	This session will present a case study focusing on the development of a robust, horizontally scalable, enterprise CRM system at Dealer.com built primarily upon a Spring technology stack. Using a foundation of Groovy, Grails, and Spring Integration, our application has also incorporated elements of Spring AMQP, Spring Data, and a highly customized extension of Spring MVC's validation layer. In addition to these Spring staples, we've incorporated the cutting edge of other web application technology, such as MongoDB, ElasticSearch, and RabbitMQ. Furthermore, our CRM has been developed as part of a company-wide software platform powered by Grails and Spring Security.	Ellery Crane
3479	Virtualizing and Tuning Large Scale Java Applications	This session shares many of the production proven methods of running Java on vSphere. Covering how to size JVMs, and VMs for large scale deployments. The session will have a special section on GC tuning and show how a wide range of JVMs can be tuned using a GC recipe developed over the past 15 years of actual field experience in tuning JVMs.	Emad Benjamin
3480	Extreme Makeover - Application Edition	In this episode we look at an old worn out application that has migrated from 3 different teams and 15 team lead changes. The poor application is now showing its years and doesn't perform like it did when it was first architected. Now through the help of a new platform, this application has an opportunity to shine again. Taking a look at past projects that have gone through similar transformations we will look at patterns and processes that can be leveraged to redesign traditional JEE applications into lightweight applications using Spring, CXF, SpringMVC, and SOA. Finally, we will walk through code examples to show how quickly applications can be developed using this new stack.	Lee Faus
3481	Extending Spring MVC with Spring Mobile and JavaScript	The modern web no longer is limited to desktop browsers. Smart phones and tablets have become an integral part of our daily lives. Web sites that may look good on a 22" monitor usually do not format and display well on a much smaller screen. Additionally, network speeds can limit the performance of a web site on mobile devices. Because of these reasons many developers and organizations are considering how to make their web sites accessible to all the various devices and screen sizes for which people are using. In this session, we will explore the functionality provided within the Spring Mobile project, and how you can use it to extend your Spring MVC application onto mobile and tablet devices. We'll then continue the discussion by demonstrating how you can leverage some of the popular mobile JavaScript frameworks in combination with Spring Mobile to provide a first class experience for your users on mobile devices.	 Craig Walls and Roy Clarkson
3482	Spring Applications using vFabric Application Director	This session will focus on deploying and managing your Spring Application in the cloud using VMware vFabric Application Director.  A series of Spring applications, increasing in complexity, will be deployed.  The deployments will cover generating property files and activating Spring profiles.  Some other highlights of the presentation will be deploying to VMWare vCloud & EC2, updating an existing deployment, and some general tips & tricks. The session will begin by using a simple contact application to be deployed as a standalone webapp with an in memory DB on single node, then it will continue with a more advanced example using PostgreSQL DB on a separate node, and finally demonstrate the use and configuration of an external DB & an Apache proxy.  The session will conclude with the deployment and discussion of Nanotrader, a sample trading application, with complex requirements.	Brian Dussault and David Winterfeldt
3483	Special Topic: Case Study I	TBA	Adam Fitzgerald
3490	Spring Project Infrastructure	Over the last year a number of significant changes have been made to the infrastructure and processes used within the Spring family of projects. In this presentation we will review these process changes and provide valuable insights into the tools that make it all possible. We will begin with providing a brief history, then move on to discuss the new tools being used, such as GitHub, Gradle, and Artifactory. Beyond describing the tools, we'll also illustrate how these new tools help facilitate our processes, including community contributions, release management, defect tracking, and more. Ultimately, this presentation will paint a larger picture of the development process for open source projects at Spring, and the various outlets available for community involvement.	Gunnar Hillert and Roy Clarkson
3491	An Introduction to Spring Data	The Spring Data project is an umbrella project that provides a familiar and consistent Spring-based programming model for a wide range of data access technologies.  Motivated by the rise of new NoSQL databases and Big Data solutions, there is support for Redis, MongoDB, HBase, Neo4j, Gemfire, Hadoop and Splunk.   There is also a “refresh” of Spring’s traditional support for JDBC and JPA.  In this session, we will provide a guided tour of the Spring Data feature set, showing how you can quickly increase your productivity when creating applications that use these new data access technologies.   Use cases unique to each technology will be discussed and demonstrated as well as where Spring Data provides some level of portability between different databases.	Mark Pollack
3492	What's New in Spring Integration	Session abstract available soon	Gary Russell, Gunnar Hillert, and Oleg Zhurakousky
3493	What's New in Cloud Foundry	We've been busy making improvements and adding features since Cloud Foundry's first birthday!  Come to this session to get an in-depth view of the latest and greatest in Cloud Foundry.  It's easier than ever before to build and deploy your distributed polyglot applications.  You will see some exciting new options, including new Java and Node runtimes and support for background workers and container-less web apps.  These features allow you to create distributed apps comprised of many smaller, focused apps each written in the framework that fits its purpose best.  We will also explore the latest in tooling, including new features in the STS plugin and the brand new "next gen" VMC client. We will peek under the hood to see what's new in the Cloud Foundry architecture.  You may even get a sneak preview of some upcoming features!  From Cloud Foundry beginner to expert, this session has something for everyone.	Jennifer Hickey and Ramnivas Laddad
3494	Inside Cloud Foundry Architecture	Session Abstract available soon	Adam Fitzgerald
3497	Special Topic: Cloud Platforms	More information on this session will be available soon.	Adam Fitzgerald
3498	Special Topic: Cloud Architecture	More information on this session will be available soon.	Adam Fitzgerald
3499	Special Topic: Cloud Infrastructure	More information on this session will be available soon.	Adam Fitzgerald
3500	Cloud Foundry Bootcamp	Hands on guide and introduction for Cloud Foundry for novices. This sessions covers the basics of accessing the Cloud Foundry platform as a service, how to use cloudfoundry.com, how to install and use Micro Cloud Foundry on your laptop, and covers the basics vmc commands for the platform. The session will provide hands on troubleshooting for developers that want to install and set-up Cloud Foundry in the session.	Jennifer Hickey
3501	Practical Tips for Application Development on Cloud Foundry	Drawn from practical experience migrating production applications to Cloud Foundry, this session will present detailed tips for developers looking to get the most out of this open source platform as a service. Topics covered include:	 Phil Webb
3503	Thinking Outside the Container: Running Standalone Apps on Cloud Foundry	Some applications simply cannot be contained.  Perhaps you want to write a worker that periodically polls for updates or performs a maintenance task.  Perhaps you would like to use a new lightweight web framework.  You don’t necessarily want to build a WAR for these types of apps.  With Cloud Foundry, you don’t have to!  In this session, we will build and deploy several types of standalone applications, from distributed workers built with Spring Integration and Akka, to container-less web applications built with vert.x and spray, to bring-your-own-container apps that embed Jetty.  If you’re a Java or Scala developer who likes to “think outside the container”, this talk is for you!	Jennifer Hickey and Ramnivas Laddad
3504	Splunk as a Big Data Platform for Developers	Splunk is a Big Data platform that transforms the massive amount of heterogeneous and often totally unstructured machine data being generated across the enterprise into valuable insights and realtime operational intelligence. Splunk exposes a rich REST API that covers every feature in the product, and we have several language SDKS to enable developers to leverage the power of the Splunk platform. In this session I'll demonstrate how developers can use the Splunk Java SDK to : 1) easily and rapidly create big data applications without the need to write Map Reduce jobs 2) integrate Splunk search results with your existing applications 3) augment the operational visibility of the JVM apps you are building via the variety of data sources you can send to Splunk 4) use Splunk as a powerful tool throughout your development process to enhance the quality of the software you are pushing into production	 Damien Dallimore
3505	Migrating Java EE Applications to Spring and Tomcat	This session will focus on transforming legacy Java EE apps to Tomcat and tcServer. We will provide complete application transformation right from analysis of the app for migration, re-factoring code/configuration through to deployment & testing of the transformed application on private or public Paas platform.	Abdul Wajid
3512	What's new with tooling for Spring, Grails and the Cloud	In this talk we will give an overview of the recently open-sourced and newly organized tooling landscape for Spring, Groovy/Grails and Cloud Foundry (we’ll touch on Gradle too). We will introduce the new open-sourced tooling projects and how they fit together to form our new distributions: the Spring Tool Suite and the Groovy/Grails Tool Suite. In addition to that we will demo the latest feature additions to the tools that enable you to be even more productive. The first part of this talk will focus on Spring whilst the second part focuses on Groovy/Grails.  Attend one (or both!) parts of the session.	Andy Clement and Martin Lippert